Run apt-get install tor to install/update your Tor packages
Run service tor start to start the Tor service
Run service tor status to check Tor's availability
Run service tor stop to stop the Tor service

------------
Proxychains 
------------
Proxychains - a tool that forces any TCP connection made by any given application to follow through proxy like TOR or any other SOCKS4, SOCKS5 or HTTP(S) proxy.
Proxychains is widely used by pentesters during the reconnaissance stage (For example with nmap).

running apt install proxychains to install/update proxychains tool
Now it's time to configure proxychains to work properly

Run nano /etc/proxychains.conf to edit the settings. (Note: You can use any text editing tool instead of nano)

We can now see, that most of the methods are under comment mark. You can read their description and decide on using one of them in the future. For this lesson let's uncomment dynamic_chain and comment others (simply put '#' to the left). Additionally, it is useful to uncomment proxy_dns in order to prevent DNS leak. Scroll through the document and see whenever you want to add some additional proxies at the bottom of the page (which is not required at this point).

Start the TOR service and run "proxychains firefox" Usually, you are required to put 'proxychains' command before anything in order to force it to transfer data through Tor.


After the firefox has loaded, check if your IP address has changed with any website that provides such information. Also, try running a test on dnsleaktest.com and see if your DNS address changed too.

NOTE: All other web browser windows should be closed before opening firefox through proxychains!

------------
TOR Browser
------------
Tor browser, as seen from its name, is a browser that transfers all its traffic through TOR and by using firefox headers makes all Tor users look the same.

On a daily basis, Tor browser is useful for anyone who wants to keep their internet activities out of the hands of advertisers, ISPs, and web sites. That includes people getting around censorship restrictions in their country, police officers looking to hide their IP address or anyone else who doesn't want their browsing habits linked to them.

Install Tor browser on your system (It is not necessarily to do this on your Kali Machine).
